do you have a friend or a sibling that's
always competing with you to see who's
the fastest our alien friends bleah Bop
and Mark are having the same debate with
their custom-built rockets and they've
asked us to be the judge of a space race
to their moon the only problem is that
they're starting from different
asteroids bleah Bop is on an asteroid
240 miles from the moon and Mark is on
one 150 miles away don't worry it's not
rocket science
solving this equation is as simple as
dirt we can decide who the winner is
using the D equals RT formula or dirt
this stands for distance equals rate
times time in the case of Blubaugh and
mark we will only know the distance they
traveled and the time it took for them
to get to the finish line it'll be up to
us to find the rate and who's faster
let's turn to the race now and see what
information we get three two one blast
off leave off and marks Rockets go
zipping across the galaxy towards their
moon dodging clunky meteorites and loopy
space buggies
after a few close calls with a wandering
satellite mark arrives first in two
hours and Blee blob gets there one hour
later looks like Mark is the faster
rocket but let's check out the results
with our dirt equation begin by setting
up a chart make four columns and 3 rows
use dirt to remember what to fill in
each rocket will have information for
distance rate and time marks rocket went
a hundred 50 miles we don't know the
rate and he got there in two hours
bleeb office rocket went 240 miles we
don't know the rate and the time is 1
hour after mark or 3 hours because we
don't know mark or bleeb ops rate that
number is going to be a variable in each
equation which will represent with X
we'll solve the equation for the
variable to find its value
mark finished first so start with his
rocket member injured write down D
equals RT 150 miles equals x times 2
hours divide both sides by 2 hours this
will leave X isolated on the right side
of the equation
150 miles divided by two hours is 75
miles over one hour
marks rate is 75 miles per hour
that's what mph means it's the amount of
miles over one hour still think mark is
faster let's set up this same equation
for blue bop and C D equals RT 240 miles
equals x times 3 hours divide both sides
by 3 hours this will leave X isolated on
the right side of the equation 240 miles
divided by 3 hours is 80 miles over one
hour
Lee bops rate is 80 miles per hour Wow
even though bleep op got there one hour
later it turns out he had the faster
rocket mark seems pretty upset but with
aliens you can never really tell thanks
to dirt you now know how to calculate
distance rate and time in what other
situations can you use the distance
formula you don't even need to be
watching a space race as long as you
know two pieces of information for the
formula D equals RT you can calculate
any moving vehicle or object now the
next time you're in a car you can let
your friends know exactly when you'll be
arriving how fast you're going or the
distance you'll travel it's as simple as
dirt
Oh